---
date: "2022-03-25"
description: Quasimodo
featured_image: ""
tags: []
title: 'The Effect of Minimum Wage Changes on Scientific Production'
menu:
  main:
    weight: 85
    parent: post
---
### Friday March 25th, 8:30 - 9:45am, BeijingTime

**Abstract**: We estimate the impact of changes in state minimum wage laws on demand for lab personnel and scientific productivity. Using an event study difference-in-differences framework and rich administrative data from the accounting records of thousands of labs at U.S. research universities,  we find  that  increased  labor  costs  matter  for  the  employment  of  trainee  research  assistants  and  staff  and  the  rate  and  direction  of  scientific  activity,  particularly  among labs  that  are  more  dependent  on  employing  low-wage workers. Our analysis demonstrates the need for insurance mechanisms or increased budget flexibility for PIs, particularly for universities seeking to provide undergraduates with research experience.

**Speaker**: Prof. Ina Ganguli from Dept. of Economics, University of Massachusetts Amherst.
https://www.umass.edu/economics/ganguli

Dr. Ganguli earned her PhD in Public Policy from Harvard University. Her research is in the areas of labor economics, the economics of science and innovation, international development and economic history. Her work has been featured at Management Science, Strategic Management Journal, Review of Economics and Statistics, AEJ-Applied, The Journal of Labor Economics.
