---
date: "2022-05-21"
description: "Esmeralda"
featured_image: ""
tags: []
cover_image: "/images/zhao.jpeg"
title: 'Why is Global Patent Litigation Geographically Concentrated?'
event_time: "Saturday May 21st, 9:30-10:45am, Beijing Time"
speaker: "Prof. Minyuan Zhao from Washington University, St. Louis"
link: "https://olin.wustl.edu/EN-US/Faculty-Research/Faculty/Pages/FacultyDetail.aspx?username=minyuan"
menu:
  main:
    weight: 4
    parent: post
---

**Abstract**: Global patent litigation is highly concentrated in a handful of countries. This is surprising as litigation results are only binding in the country of litigation. This paper explores the strategic explanations behind such observations. We argue that litigation tends to be more concentrated when a firm’s main markets historically share similar litigation outcomes, so signals from one country can effectively deter competition in others. This is especially the case when the focal country is known for its experience in handling cases in certain technological categories. In that sense, the signaling effect shares the features of typical agglomeration effects: The more cases being litigated in a country, the more attractive the country becomes to litigating firms. We find supportive evidence from a sample of global infringement cases from 2005 to 2017.

**Speaker**: Prof. Minyuan Zhao from Washington University, St. Louis. https://olin.wustl.edu/EN-US/Faculty-Research/Faculty/Pages/FacultyDetail.aspx?username=minyuan

Minyuan’s research examines the interactions between firm strategy and external environment in a global context. Her work on multinational innovation and intellectual property (IP) strategies has been published in top journals such as Management Science, Strategic Management Journal, and Journal of International Business Studies. Dr. Zhao won Best Paper Awards from both Strategic Management Society and the Academy of Management. She is also a frequent commentator on the current global business environment and China-related topics. Below please find the link, the title, and the abstract of the presentation.
