---
date: "2022-04-08"
description: Quasimodo
featured_image: ""
tags: []
cover: "/images/coming.jpeg"
title: 'Selection Regimes and Selection Errors: a Multi-method Study'
menu:
  main:
    weight: 90
    parent: post
---
### Friday April 8th, 4:00 - 5:15pm, BeijingTime

**Abstract**: How can organizations structure their selection of innovation projects to reduce errors in the form of false positives (investments that should not have been made) and false negatives (investments that should have been made but were not)? Although simulations and case studies exist, our understanding of the effects of selection regimes on both types of errors has been limited due to a lack of decision and outcome data over a large set of projects. We use 121 interviews and secondary material from an accelerator targeting mobile application developers to understand how it implemented three different selection regimes over time, and map these to existing literature. We complement this with unique data of 3,580 innovation projects submitted to the accelerator where we collected the outcomes for both funded and rejected projects to measure false positives and false negatives at the project-level. Our findings suggest that despite efforts to improve selection regimes, there are remarkable similarities between them in the tendency to select false positives and false negatives. Considering differences in the pools of projects submitted for selection, as the accelerator strove to tighten the quality distribution in the last selection regime, our evidence suggests that they instead became more likely to make false positive and false negative decisions. This finding holds despite a range of different controls, and seems to align with the mechanism that the selectors focused too much on the team’s past track record in a process that is more random than they assumed.

**Speaker**: Prof. Linus Dahlander from  ESMT Berlin. https://faculty-research.esmt.berlin/person/linus-dahlander/bio

Dr. Dahlander conducts research in innovation, entrepreneurship and strategy. In his ongoing research, he investigates how new ideas and innovations are developed in networks and communities. The ongoing projects use large-scale analysis of networks, which he integrates with a deeper appreciation for what content flows through networks. His research has been published in the Academy of Management Journal, Administrative Science Quarterly, Organization Science, Research Policy, and Strategic Management Journal among others. He was recognized as one of the Best 40 Under 40 Professors by Poets & Quants in 2017.
